If you've browsed the electronics departments of Walmart or Target, chances are good that the HP Stream 14 ($219.99) has caught your eye, whether because of its candy-colored design or its ultra-affordable price. HP has been making the inexpensive Stream laptop for a few years now, presenting the low-powered budget laptop as a Windows-based competitor to Chromebooks. The Stream 14 is larger than HP's Stream offerings in previous years (the largest model used to be 13 inches), but not much else has changed.

article continued below

Like a Chromebook, the Stream 14 keeps the price low by sticking to the bare essentials: a low-powered CPU, minimal RAM and 32GB of flash memory for storage. Unfortunately, that may not be enough to support the sort of Windows experience you expect from even a budget laptop.
Design

The Stream 14 has a lightweight plastic chassis, measuring 13.3 x 8.9 x 0.70 inches and weighing just 3.11 pounds. The plastic construction feels hollow and flexes a bit with every keystroke and tap on the trackpad -- an issue we didn't encounter when we tested the smaller HP Stream 11. The palm rest has a textured pattern and gets a dash of two-toned style thanks to the white keyboard. This is similar in both size and weight to other 14-inch systems in this price range, like the Lenovo Ideapad 100S-14, which measures 13.3 x 9.3 x 0.7 inches and weighs 3.2 pounds.
The Stream line has always sported bright candy colors, and although the unit we reviewed was bright blue, you can also get it in purple. Competing machines, like the Lenovo Ideapad 100S-14, keep it simple with black plastic construction.
Display

The Stream 14 has a 14-inch display with a 1366 x 768 resolution, which isn't uncommon in this ultrabudget price range. When I watched the trailer for Thor: Ragnarok, the colorful trailer looked OK. The Hulk's skin looked to be the right shade of green, explosions flared orange and the lightning crackling off of Thor looked bluish white.
HP's laptop can produce 81.5 percent of the sRGB color gamut, which is nearly identical to the scores from the Dell Inspiron 14 3000 (81 percent) and the Lenovo Ideapad 100S-14 (84 percent).

The display's color accuracy isn't perfect, with a Delta-E rating of 3.86 as measured with our colorimeter (0 is ideal). That's pretty much what we expect in this price range, as both the IdeaPad 100S-14 (3.85) and the Inspiron 14 3000 (3.4) had similar color accuracy.

The display was also pretty dim, averaging 186 nits of brightness. That's better than the Inspiron 14 3000 (135 nits) and similar to the IdeaPad 100S-14 (188 nits), but we prefer a panel brighter than 200 nits.
Audio

The HP Stream 14 has a pair of downward-firing speakers, but on this laptop, you'll want to use a pair of headphones. When I listened to the Red Hot Chili Peppers' "Dark Necessities," I heard the lyrics clearly and could make out percussion well, but Flea's aggressive bass line was muted. The DTS Studio Sound utility, which offers some audio presets, is preinstalled, but none of the presets did much to improve the anemic sound from the small speakers.
Keyboard and Touchpad

The HP Stream 14's keyboard has white tile keys, which have 1.32 millimeters of travel and require 72 grams of pressure to register a keystroke. Despite the heavy pressure required for each keystroke, the keys themselves felt light and flimsy, and I briefly worried that they would come off if they were banged around in a laptop bag. On the 10FastFingers.com typing test, I managed to bang out 65 words per minute, falling a bit short of my usual 80 wpm.
The HP Stream 14 has a pair of downward-firing speakers, but on this laptop, you'll want to use a pair of headphones. When I listened to the Red Hot Chili Peppers' "Dark Necessities," I heard the lyrics clearly and could make out percussion well, but Flea's aggressive bass line was muted. The DTS Studio Sound utility, which offers some audio presets, is preinstalled, but none of the presets did much to improve the anemic sound from the small speakers.
Keyboard and Touchpad

The HP Stream 14's keyboard has white tile keys, which have 1.32 millimeters of travel and require 72 grams of pressure to register a keystroke. Despite the heavy pressure required for each keystroke, the keys themselves felt light and flimsy, and I briefly worried that they would come off if they were banged around in a laptop bag. On the 10FastFingers.com typing test, I managed to bang out 65 words per minute, falling a bit short of my usual 80 wpm.
Equipped with a 1.6-GHz Intel Celeron N3060 processor, Intel HD Graphics 400, 4GB of RAM and 32GB of eMMc flash storage, the Stream 14 has virtually the same components seen in the Ideapad 100S-14 and the Inspiron 14 3000, but with an additional 2GB of RAM. It's also identical to the Samsung Chromebook 3, which highlights the Stream 14's position as a Chromebook competitor.
While this Windows-based system may offer a more familiar OS environment and (ostensibly) support the programs and apps you're used to, the performance just isn't there. When I ran through basic aspects of testing, like snapping a photo with the webcam, there was noticeable lag for very basic functions, and when I tried running multiple browser tabs, things slowed and stuttered with only five tabs open.

The Stream 14 scored 1,817 in the Geekbench 4 overall performance test, which is a hair ahead of the Inspiron 14 3000 (1,807) and just behind the Ideapad 100S-14 (1,880), which was expected considering the Stream's low-powered Celeron processor. Although it costs a good deal more, at $350, the Acer Aspire E 15 (E5-575-33BM) (5,408, Intel Core i3-7100U) gives you substantially better performance while still coming in at well under $500.
Software and Warranty

Microsoft offers manufacturers plenty of help in appealing to the budget crowd with the Stream and other Chromebook competitors. In addition to offering companies the OS for free on models in a certain price range and configurations, Microsoft bundles in some attractive extras. The Stream 14 comes with a free one-year subscription to Microsoft Office 2016, which includes Word, Excel, PowerPoint and OneNote. The Stream 14 also comes with 25GB of cloud storage via Dropbox and a 30-day free trial of McAfee LiveSafe.

MORE: Best Laptops Under $500

HP preinstalls a few helpful utilities and apps, like HP Orbit, which lets you share files between your laptop and your smartphone. Unfortunately, it also comes with a lot of bloatware that you'll likely want to remove right away, like a collection of game trials from WildTangent and apps from Amazon and Priceline.com.

HP covers the Stream 14 with a standard one-year warranty. See how HP stacked up in our ranking of the Best and Worst Laptop Brands survey and Tech Support Showdown.
Bottom Line

When every penny matters, the HP Stream 14 is a colorful option with a budget-friendly price. It offers a 14-inch display, all the basic ports you'll need and good-enough performance that will get you browsing the web and typing up papers in no time. However, the Lenovo Ideapad 100S-14 has a much better keyboard and superior build quality, though it has shorter battery life and less RAM. If you're willing to spend just a bit more, consider the $350 Acer Aspire E 15 (E5-575-33BM), which remains our top pick for budget laptops.

But it's also worth repeating that this is a bare-bones, budget laptop that was designed to compete with Chromebooks, and a system such as the Samsung Chromebook 3 could be a better answer for budget-minded shoppers. However, if you want an inexpensive 14-inch laptop with decent battery life, capable performance and a touch of color, the HP Stream 14 is a solid option.
With its meager 32GB of storage -- only about half of which is available to use -- it's nice HP didn't skimp on expansion options. An SD card fits almost entirely in the slot, too, so you could easily leave a card in there for files and applications.

You can, of course, use those ports for a keyboard and mouse to avoid the laptop's touchpad and keyboard. The latter isn't altogether unpleasant, but there's very little travel and the keys feel thin and flimsy like they might pop off or stop working if you type too hard. The touchpad is generally OK, but I recommend shutting off most of the multitouch options like pinch-to-zoom and turning up the palm rejection setting.

If you're hooking up a keyboard and mouse, though, you might as well connect a monitor as well. The laptop's screen looks washed out, colors are off and I found myself constantly adjusting the angle in a futile attempt to make it look better. You know what worked? Outputting to a full HD display via HDMI. 