The iPhone 11 is all the iPhone you need. Sure, the Pro models have an extra zoom lens, slightly better battery life, and nicer screens … but most people don’t need all of that. Save yourself $300 and go for the iPhone 11.
Check out our impressions of the iPhone 11 Pro and iPhone 11 Pro Max.
If you were hoping Apple would slim down the bezels on its successor to the iPhone XR, think again. Yes, the design is still a tremendous improvement over phones like the iPhone 8, but the front of the iPhone 11 is unchanged from 2018. A thick and uniform bezel surrounds the 6.1-inch screen and there’s the same wide notch at the top, carrying the TrueDepth camera and sensors for Face ID.
Compare this to the OnePlus 7 Pro and its bezel-less screen, or the Galaxy Note 10 with its hole-punch camera, and the iPhone 11 looks a bit dated, but not terribly so.
It’s not the perfect size — that’s the 5.8-inch iPhone 11 Pro — but it’s not as unwieldy as the iPhone 11 Pro Max. The scale of the iPhone 11 marks a good middle ground for people who want a big screen but still want to manage the phone in one hand. It can be tricky trying to reach the back button, which is often on the top left corner, and that’s coming from someone with large hands.
This iPhone feels substantial, and the glossy glass back isn’t as slippery as the matte finish on the Pro models. That said, you’ll want a case. It’s not as durable as the Pro models because it’s made of aluminum and not stainless steel. It does have an IP68 water resistance rating, so it can survive up to 2 meters underwater for up to 30 minutes.
The best part of the new iPhone? The colors. There are six options and they all look wonderful (although the glass is still prone to fingerprints). My favorite is the green seen here, as well as the purple. Note that the iPhone branding has disappeared on the back, allowing for an even more minimalist look.
I’m not as happy with the camera design. The two cameras are on a module that’s raised from the back glass; slide your finger from the rear glass to the edge of the camera module and you can feel how sharp it is. I wish the edge of the camera module blended into the rear glass.
The huge cameras aren’t subtle, but they’re not as off-putting as the triple-camera lens setup on the iPhone 11 Pro and 11 Pro Max. I think if the additional raised module surrounding the lenses didn’t exist, I’d love the look of the iPhone 11. It’s growing on me, but I think the iPhone XR looks better.
The weakest link is the 6.1-inch screen on the iPhone 11. It’s not an OLED panel like most competitors in this price range, and it has a mere 1,792 × 828 (326 pixels-per-inch, PPI) resolution.
The OnePlus 7 Pro, which costs $20 less, has a 3,120 × 1,440 OLED screen with a 90Hz display, allowing for a smoother experience. Even the $399 Google Pixel 3a has a 2,220 × 1,080 resolution.
Comparing the OnePlus 7 Pro’s screen and the iPhone 11, colors are richer and blacks are darker on the OnePlus, and a tad washed out on the iPhone. Comedian Hasan Minhaj looks flat on the iPhone screen as you can see in the comparison above.
While the screen resolution is low, it’s hard to call that a problem. If you put the iPhone right in front of your eyes, sure, it’s easier to notice the difference. But that’s terrible for your eyes. Don’t do that!
I had no trouble watching episodes of The Spy on Netflix, and the screen is bright enough for me to see almost everything clearly even in sunny conditions (it can go up to 625 nits, whereas the iPhone 11 Pro can go up to 800 nits).
Still, the iPhone 11 doesn’t have a screen that matches its price tag. It falls short of the competition. No, it’s not bad, but you can find better at the same price or less.
What about audio? There are stereo speakers for surround sound, and they sound vibrant. They’re not as loud as the speakers on the Samsung Galaxy Note 10 Plus, and they don’t sound as good, but they’re more than enough for gaming and watching movies. There’s still no headphone jack.
Last year’s iPhone XR had a single lens and wasn’t versatile. That’s changing for the better with the iPhone 11, which now adds a 120-degree ultra-wide-angle lens, allowing you to capture more from a scene.
But first, let’s talk about the main 12-megapixel sensor, which has an f/1.8 aperture and is the same as the main lens on the iPhone 11 Pro models. There are several improvements across the board, from autofocus that’s three times faster in low light conditions to better Smart HDR for more balanced shots in high-contrast lighting and a new feature called semantic rendering. This captures several underexposed photos before you tap the shutter button, and then an overexposed shot afterward. The camera attempts to understand elements of the photo, such as faces, and Smart HDR processes them separately using the frames it captured.
The way we see it, is that this is the elite iPhone of 2019 to contend with the Android kings and win.

Ostensibly, it looks a lot like last year’s iPhone XS, but flip it over and you’ll see the triple camera threat, which is up there with best smartphone camera we’ve tested this year, and with Apple finally catching up and developing some sharp Night Mode camera tech, it’s the best all-round smartphone camera, full stop.

The A13 Bionic chip comes out on top in benchmark testing bringing about untouchable speeds. The fact there’s no 5G option doesn’t bother us for now, but ask us again in 12 months.

The fast charger is a godsend and something iPhone fans have been waiting for.

this is a serious and solid phone in every meaning of the word. A phone that’s going to take wicked photos in any scenario and carry out all your daily tasks with finesse.


The iPhone is probably the most recognisable smartphone ever. And there’s power in familiarity.

In fact, it’s almost identical in size to the iPhone XS, only it’s a tad heavier. There have been a few tweaks though. For starters, there’s a new matte finish, like frosted glass, and it’s not only stunning, but it’s ergonomic too; easy to hold and use (in one hand) without slipping or being plagued with fingerprints.

The shiny stainless-steel running around the 2.1mm width is a lovely contrast too and makes you want to ditch a case for sure.

The 5.8in display again is identical to last year’s iPhone XS which is a little disappointing as we’d have liked to see a bit more screen and bit less notch. Buttons remain exactly the same with a volume rocker on the left, below the silent mode switch and the wake-up button (long press for Siri) is on the right-hand side. If you’re moving up from anything after an iPhone 6, it’ll all feel very familiar.
The triple-camera on the rear looks a bit funky, but we’ve grown fond of it. It certainly draws attention and once you’ve got a case on it, it’ll lie flat on a table. Each camera lens is encircled with a stainless-steel frame and it’s seriously classy. Sometimes it feels like a fashion accessory and maybe that’s why Apple know that asking over £1000 is totally feasible.
Midnight green is of course the colour of the moment, but it’s also available in space grey, silver and this one here – gold. The gold is really subtle, not too flash and we’re fans.
With IP68 dust and water proofing, it’ll stay alive for up to 30 minutes in up to 4 metres deep, again – catching up with what a lot of phones have already achieved. But at least you don’t need to worry about dropping it in the deep end of the swimming pool.


The iPhone 11 Pro offers the phenomenally quick A13 Bionic chip, it's the best device to experience iOS 13, and includes a full camera array for shooting and editing pro movies, taking magnificent portraits and landscapes, and with the power to do so day or night. All crammed into a perfect rectangle of joy that will slide smoothly into your pocket (unlike the 11 Pro Max) and stay juiced up all day.

Of course, all this premium power and added excellence comes at a cost. Opting for the standard iPhone 11 is an entirely acceptable compromise if the budget won't stretch, you'll simply settle for a little less luxury. 
